# Simple Transport Model Demo in MESA

Created by: 
EPA133a Group 05

|          Name           | Student Number |
|:-----------------------:|:---------------|
|       Yashi Punia       | 6045979        |
|        Nhi Trân         | 5914884        |
|     Jeroen van Til      | 5167280        |
|    Koen van den Berg    | 4968530        |
| Gabriella Low Chew Tung | 5973058        |



## Introduction

A simple transport model demo in MESA for EPA133a Advanced Simulation course Lab Assignment 3. 

## How to Use

* Launch the simulation model and execute by running the following file.
```
    $ python model_run.py
```

## Files

* [model.py](model.py): Contains the model `BangladeshModel` which is a subclass of Mesa `Model`. It reads a `csv` file with specific format for (transport) model generation. (See the README in the `data` directory for data format.) In addition to dynamic behavior, each model component instance (i.e., object) also has geo-location variables, i.e. latitude and longitude in Decimal Degrees (DD). The given bounds of the latitude and longitude of all objects are translated into the bounds of the HTML5 canvas, which is used in case the visualization is launched. 

    In this file, you modify the model generation and add your own routines.

* [components.py](components.py): Contains the model component definitions for the (main) model. Check the file carefully to see which components are already defined.

* [Data_file_clean.py](Data_file_clean.py): Executes data cleaning algorithm on data from files [BMMS_overview.xlsx](../data/BMMS_overview.xlsx) and [roads3.csv](../data/_roads3.csv) stored in [data folder](../data).
    The cleaned data is used as input for the model generation process.

* [model_run.py](model_run.py): Sets up the model run (conditions) to execute 5 scenarios using 10 different seeds. Calls the model. Run the simulation without visualization. 

    The file collects data from the model and exports the data to csv files found in the [experiment folder](../experiment).

* [A3 model_viz.py](A3 model_viz.py): Sets up the visualization; uses the `SimpleCanvas` element defined. Calls the model. Run the visualization server.

    Note that for this model run visualisation was not configured and so this file should not be executed at present.

* [ContinuousSpace](ContinuousSpace): The directory contains files needed to visualize Python3 Mesa models on a continuous canvas with geo-coordinates, a functionality not contained in the current Mesa package. 
  
    Editing files in this directory is NOT recommended for our assignment. 
 
* [ContinuousSpace/SimpleContinuousModule.py](ContinuousSpace/SimpleContinuousModule.py): Defines ``SimpleCanvas``, the Python side of a custom visualization module for drawing objects with continuous positions. This is a slight adaptation of the Flocker example provided by the Mesa project. 
  
    Editing this file is NOT recommended for our assignment. 
  
* [ContinuousSpace/simple_continuous_canvas.js](ContinuousSpace/simple_continuous_canvas.js): JavaScript side of the ``SimpleCanvas`` visualization module. It takes the output generated by the Python ``SimpleCanvas`` element and draws it in the browser window via HTML5 canvas. It can draw circles and rectangles. Both can have text annotation. This file is an adaptation of the Flocker example provided by the Mesa project. 
  
    Editing this file is NOT recommended for our assignment. 


